---
title: OAuth 2.0 Series - Authorization
date: 2024-04-14
categories: [oauth]
tags: [oauth]    
description: OAuth explained by building extremely simple and realistic ExpressJs applications.
---

### Introduction

Hi there! First of all, where do we start? If you don't have a solid understanding of web sessions, tokens, and JWT, you're going to have a real hard time trying to figure out how OAuth works, so if you're completely new to these stuffs, it's way better if you start from my web sessions post. I've explained web sessions, cookies, etc by building a simple web application using ExpressJS, so feel free to check it out.

After web sessions, you can start with the post explaining JWT (Json Web Tokens), explained in the same way above. From reading these two posts, you'll have a solid understanding of web authentication, cookies, and such stuff in general. Which can help you understand OAuth in a much more detailed and simple way.

--- 

### Authorization

In the post title, I've mentioned authorization, so let's start from there. What exactly does it mean by authorization? Just think about it: authorize means granting permission—yes, exactly, giving someone or something permission to do some stuff. 

In real life, imagine a bank cheque. Someone asks you for, let's say, 100 dollars, and you decide to give the person a cheque. You take one of the bank cheques and write 100 dollars, and now the most important part: how does the bank verify that the cheque is written on your **behalf**? Or, as you know about this, yes, a signature! The signature is a mode of verification. More like giving permission, or, in other words, you authorized the cheque. Now the person goes to the bank, and the bank somehow verifies your signature and gives the person $100.

So this is the level of understanding you should have about authorization—giving something or someone permission to do stuff on your **behalf**.

---

