---
title: Solidity notes
date: 2024-04-16 
categories: [solidity]
tags: [solidity]     
---

### Pure and View functions
Pure when no data fetched from the blockchain like adding two numbers and returning it.
View used when reading from the blockchain.

---

### Public, external, internal and private

public - all can access

external - Cannot be accessed internally, only externally

internal - only this contract and contracts deriving from it can access

private - can be accessed only from this contract

---

### Receive ether payable

```solidity
function recEther() public payable {
      toepa[msg.sender] += msg.value;
}
```

--- 

### Abi Encode

```solidity
function getCalldata() public view returns (bytes memory){
        return abi.encodeWithSignature("getBalance(address)", msg.sender);
}
```

> Returns 0xf8b2cb4f0000000000000000000000004b20993bc481177ec7e8f571cecae8a9e22c02db

Response from every hashing function, like keccak-256, are bytes or hex string representing those bytes. Every byte is represented by 2 characters in hex string. So 4 first bytes are 8 first characters. In you example there are

[f8, b2, cb, 4f]

0xf8b2cb4f - Represents "getBalance(address)" called the Method ID

> When "getBalance(address)" is hashed with with Keccak256 https://emn178.github.io/online-tools/keccak_256.html we get same result.

```solidity
function decode(bytes calldata payload) public pure returns (address) {
        return abi.decode(payload[4:], (address));
}
```
> Returns the address of the msg.sender from earlier.

---

msg.data = function selector (the function which is called) + function arguments

4 bytes selector + arguments

> The first four bytes of data are a function selector, where the selector is derived from a hash of the function name (source code) and arguments, truncated to four bytes.

> What is a Method ID? - Ethereum relies on a unique identifier, known as a Method ID or a function selector, to differentiate between different functions or methods within a smart contract.

Also, you can get the contract ABI from etherscan, and paste it into this tool: https://abi.hashex.org/ which provides then the hashes for your functions. It seems you need to enter at least the first parameter.

---

### Receive and fallback functions
 
 Which function is called, fallback() or receive()?

           send Ether
               |
         msg.data is empty?
              / \
            yes  no
            /     \
    receive() exists?  fallback()
         /   \
        yes   no
        /      \
    receive()   fallback()



---

```solidity
receive() external payable {
      console.log("Me executed when no calldata is provided");
}
```

```solidity
fallback() external payable { 
        console.logBytes(msg.data);
}
```
When the calldata is passed. Through low level interactions like call or through remix ide low level calldata.

```solidity
function callTota(Contract toCallContract) public returns (bool) {
        (bool success,) = address(toCallContract).call(abi.encodeWithSignature("nthada()"));
        return success;
}
```
This nthada() function does not exists so 'console.logBytes(msg.data);' will be executed.

---



